# Chapter 7

# Viewing and Modifying Variables

`env` = This will display a list of environment variables like `HOME`, `PATH`, `USER`, etc. 

`export` = create or modify variables

Environment variables are always uppercase, such as `HOME`, `PATH`, and `SHELL`.

- **`env`** shows you the basic, important things about the house (like who is here and where things are).
- **`set`** shows you everything that has been changed or set up in the house, even things that were not originally there.

# Filtering for Particular Variables

`set | grep “specific var”`

To change the value of a variable, like `HISTSIZE`, in your current session, you can simply assign a new value to it. For example, to prevent the system from storing any command history, set `HISTSIZE` to 0:  `HISTSIZE=0`

# Making Variable Value Changes Permanent

**`echo $HISTSIZE > ~/”name.txt"`  -To create the file** and save `HISTSIZE` to it

`set > ~/allvalueofset` - If you want the file to contain all your current settings (like from the `set` command), you can use:

# Changing Your Shell Prompt

`PS1 = “name”` 

# Changing Your PATH

he **`PATH`** variable is super important because it tells your system where to look for commands. For example, when you type a command like `ls` to list files, the shell uses the **`PATH`** variable to find out where the `ls` command is located on your system.

**`$PATH`** is a list of directories that your system checks for commands.

`echo PATH` - You can check your current `PATH` by running:

`export PATH=$PATH:/home/user/scripts -`For example, if you have a directory `/home/user/scripts` with custom scripts, you can add it to your `PATH` so that you can run those scripts from anywhere without typing the full path

# Adding to the PATH Variable

`export PATH=$PATH:/root/newtool -` Normally, you’d have to navigate to that directory each time you want to use the tool. But if you add this directory to your **`PATH`**, you can run the tool from anywhere

`echo $PATH` -  to see path file

# Creating own Variables

- **Creating:** `MYNEWVARIABLE="value"`
- **Viewing:** `echo $MYNEWVARIABLE`
- **Exporting:** `export MYNEWVARIABLE` (to make it persist across sessions)
- **Deleting:** `unset MYNEWVARIABLE`