# Chapter 9

# `tar`

`tar -cvf “name.tar”  “example1” example2” “example3”`

- `c`: **create** a new archive.
- `v`: **verbose**, shows which files are being added.
- `f`: specify the **file** name for the archive (in this case, `HackersArise.tar`).

`tar -tvf “name”` - view tar file without extraction

- `t`: **list** the contents of the archive.
- `v`: **verbose** listing (optional, shows file details).
- `f`: specify the archive file.

`tar -xvf “name”` - extracting

`tar -xf “name”` - silent extraction

- `c`: Create an archive.
- `v`: Verbose (shows details during operation).
- `f`: Specify the archive file name.
- `t`: List the contents of an archive.
- `x`: Extract the files from an archive.

# Compression

- **`gzip`**: Compress files into `.gz` format.
- **`gunzip`**: Decompress `.gz` files back to their original format.
- **Wildcard Usage**: You can use *``to target files with specific patterns, such as all files beginning with a certain name.
- **size is reduced significantly (e.g., from 40,960 bytes to 3,299 bytes)**

`bzip` : The compressed file has the `.tar.bz2` extension.
`bunzip` : Decompress `.tar.bz2` files back to original format

compressed the file down to just 2,081 bytes!

# `dd`

`dd if=inputfile of=outputfile`

- **`noerror`**: Continues copying even if errors occur.
- **`bs` (block size)**: Defines the block size (in bytes) used for reading and writing data. Default is 512 bytes, but you can set it to a larger size (e.g., 4096 bytes) to speed up the process.
Example:

`dd if=/dev/media of=/root/flashcopy bs=4096 conv:noerror`